📌METASPLOIT : INTRODUCTION 
	
	♦️INTRODUCTION TO METASPLOIT :
	
	Metasploit is a powerful tool for penetration testing engagement from information gathering to post exploitation. Metasploit has two types of versions :
	1) Metasploit-pro : for commercial purpose and it has GUI interface
	2) Metasploit-framework : its a CLI-based version and it is a open source containing many tools,modules and more.
	
	Metasploit-framework is a set of tools for informarion gathering,scanning,vulnerability research,exploitation,post-exploitation and more.
	Main components of Metasploit-framework :
	1)msfconsole : The main command-line interface
	2)modules : such as exploits,scanner and payloads 
	3)tools : some of tools msfvenom,pattern_create and pattern_offset.
	
	
	♦️MAIN COMPONENT OF METASPLOIT :
		You can luanch metasploit through msfconsole.Modules are small component of metasploi-framework that are built to perform a specific task such as exploitation,
		scanning a target and brute-force attack.
		
		some important concepts :
		1)exploit : A piece of code that uses vulnerability on the target system.
		2)vulnerability : A logic,design or flaw affecting the target system.
		3)payload : it is code that run on the target system that can lead to gaining system access or leak confidential information.
		
		
		1)Auxilary : 
			Any supporting module,such as fuzzers,scanner and crawlers can be found here.
		2)Encoders : 
			Encoders will allow you to encode exploit and payload that signature-based antivirus may miss them.
		3)evasion :
			While encoders will encode the payload, they should not be considered a direct attempt to evade antivirus software. On the other hand, “evasion” modules
			will try that, with more or less success.
		4)exploits :
			A piece of code that uses vulnerability on the target system.
		5)payload  :
			a code that run on target system. under payload has four directories :
			1)Adapters :
				An adapter wrap single payload to convert into different format.
			2)Singles :
				self-contained payload that contain everything in a single file/message no second download.indicated by the “_” between “shell” and “reverse”
			3)Stagers :
				Stagers are small bootstrap paylaods.it used to create a communucation channel between metasploit and target system.
				ndicated by the “/” between “shell” and “reverse”.
			4)Stage :
				Downloaded by stagers . its used to dowmload large size payload.
				
		6)post :
			Post modules will be useful on the final stage of the penetration testing process listed above, post-exploitation.
			
	Questions : 1)What is the name of the code taking advantage of a flaw on the target system?
	---> exploit
	2)What is the name of the code that runs on the target system to achieve the attacker's goal? 
	---> payload
	3)What are self-contained payloads called?
	---> stagers
	4)Is "windows/x64/pingback_reverse_tcp" among singles or staged payload? 
	---> singles
	
	
	♦️MSFCONSOLE :
		
		you can launch framework by typing msfconsole on your terminal.some of following commands :
		
		1)help :
			The help command can be used on its own or for a specific command.
			usage : help set [option] [value]
		2)history :
			You can use the history command to see commands you have typed earlier.
			usage : history
		3)show :
			This will print options related to the exploit.
		4)info :
			it will display detailed information on the module such as its author, relevant sources, etc.
		5)search :
			This command will search the Metasploit Framework database for modules relevant to the given search parameter. You can conduct searches using
			CVE numbers, exploit names (eternalblue, heartbleed, etc.), or target system.
		
		You can direct the search function using keywords such as type and platform.
		command : search type:auxiliary telnet
		
	Queations : 1)How would you search for a module related to Apache?
	---> search Apache
	2)Who provided the auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_login module?
	---> use command : use auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_login
	Answer : todb
	
	
	♦️WORKING WITH MODULES :
		
		In this task, we will set the RHOSTS parameter to the IP address of our target system using the set command.
		command : set RHOSTS <target-ip>
		you can use the show options command to check the value was set correctly.
		parameters :
		1)RHOSTS : Remote host ,the ip address of the target system.also you can set single ip or full network range ip.
		2)PAYLOAD : the payload will you use with exploit.
		3)RPORT : Remote port, port that running on target system.
		4)LHOSTS : localhost,the attacking machine ip
		5)LPORT : localport, the port that want to reverse shell on port
		
		unset :
			you can also clear any parameter value using the unset command or clear all set parameters with the unset all command.
			
		setg : 
			The setg command sets a global value that will be used until you exit Metasploit or clear it using the unsetg command.
			
		sessions :
			The sessions command can be used from the msfconsole prompt or any context to see the existing sessions.
		session -i :
			To interact with any session, you can use the sessions -i command followed by the desired session number.
			
	Questions :1)How would you set the LPORT value to 6666?
	---> set LPORT 6666
	2)How would you set the global value for RHOSTS  to 10.10.19.23 ? 
	---> setg RHOSTS 10.10.19.23
	3)What command would you use to clear a set payload?
	---> unset payload
	4)What command do you use to proceed with the exploitation phase?
	---> exploit
	
	
	
	


