📌PROTOCOLS AND SERVERS 2 :
	
	♦️INTRODUCTION :
		Before we covered some common protocols in this we cover Servers implementing these protocols are subject to different kinds of attacks :
		1)Sniffing attack (network packet capture)
		2)Man-in-the-middle attack
		3)Password attack(authentication attack)
		
		For the security perspective, consider the security triad :Confidentiality,Integrity and Availability (CIA).
		CONFIDENTIALITY refer to keeping the content of communication accessible to the intended parties.INTEGRITY is refer to any data is sent accurate,consistent and 
		complete when its reaching its destination.AVAILABILITY refer to services when it needed then it is accessible.
		DAD refer to Disclosure,Alteration and Destruction which reflect the CIA triad.
		
		
	
	♦️SNIFFING ATTACK :
		Sniffing attack refers to using a network packet capture tool to collect information about the target. A simple network packet capture can reveal information,
		such as the content of private messages and login credentials, if the data isn't encrypted in transit.A sniffing attack can be conducted using an 
		Ethernet (802.3) network card, provided that the user has proper permissions .
		Some network packet capturing software as following :
		1)Tcpdump is CLI-based network capturer
		2)Wireshark is GUI-based network capturing software
		3)Tshark is a alternative of wireshark.
		
		For ex, a user checks email messages using a pop3 service. we use a tcpdump network capturing software. but in that most important thing is port will be open. 
		So we type command sudo tcpdump port 110 -A . in this command we use sudo to packet capturing to root privileges , we know that pop3 has default port 110 and we want 
		to display the content of packet capture in ascii format so we use -A option.
		So any protocol that uses cleartext communication is susceptible to this kind of attack. The only requirement for this attack to succeed is to have access to a 
		system between the two communicating systems. This attack requires attention; the mitigation lies in adding an encryption layer on top of any network protocol. 
		In particular, Transport Layer Security (TLS) has been added to HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP and many others. For remote access, Telnet has been replaced by the
		secure alternative Secure Shell (SSH).
		
	Questions :
	1)What do you need to add to the command sudo tcpdump to capture only Telnet traffic?
	---> port 23
	2)What is the simplest display filter you can use with Wireshark to show only IMAP traffic?
	---> imap
	
	
	♦️Man-in-the-middle(MITM)attack :
		A Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attack occurs when a victim (A) believes they are communicating with a legitimate destination (B) but is unknowingly communicating 
		with an attacker (E).For ex, A send message to B and A uses cleartext protocol like FTP or pop3 and an attacker is seated between in network so A send message 
		like how are you and attacker edit this message where are you and this message will go to B.This will happen because A uses cleartext protocol so this kind of attack 
		is occured.
		Any time you browse over HTTP, you are susceptible to a MITM attack, and the scary thing is that you cannot recognize it. Many tools would aid you in carrying
		out such an attack, such as Ettercap and Bettercap.Mitigation againist this attack is the use of cryptographic protocol like ssh.
		With the help of Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and trusted root certificates, Transport Layer Security (TLS) protects from MITM attacks.
		
	Questions :
	1)How many different interfaces does Ettercap offer?
	---> 3
	2)In how many ways can you invoke Bettercap?
	---> 3
	
	
	♦️TRANSPORT LAYER SECURITY(TLS) :
		TLS (Transport Layer Security) is a cryptographic protocol used to secure communication over a network — most commonly the internet. It ensures that the 
		data sent between a client (like your browser) and a server (like a website) is encrypted, authenticated, and integrity-protected.
		lists the protocols we have covered and their default ports before and after the encryption upgrade via SSL/TLS.
		
		protocol 	Default Port 	Secured Protocol 	Default Port with TLS
        HTTP 	             80 	     HTTPS 	                 443
        FTP 	             21 	     FTPS 	                 990
        SMTP 	             25 	     SMTPS 	                 465
        POP3 	             110 	     POP3S 	                 995
        IMAP 	             143 	     IMAPS 	                 993
                  
                Consider the case of HTTP.to retrieve a web page over HTTP, the web browser would need at least perform the following two steps:
                1)To establish a TCP connection with web server.
                2)To requests a webpage using HTTP requests like GET and POST method
                
                Consider the case of HTTPS.HTTPS requires an additional step to encrypt the traffic. The new step takes place after establishing a TCP connection and before 
                sending HTTP requests.
                1)To establish a TCP connection with web server.
                2)Establish a SSL/TLS connection.
                3)Use HTTP requests to web server.
                
                After establishing a TCP connection with the server, the client establishes an SSL/TLS connection,following steps happens:
                1)he client says “hello” and lists supported TLS versions & ciphers.
                2)The server responds with its digital certificate (contains public key).
                3)The client verifies the certificate (using CA trust chain).
                4)Both agree on encryption algorithms and generate a session key.
                5)Once the handshake is done, all data is encrypted using symmetric encryption (fast and secure).
                
        Questions :1)DNS can also be secured using TLS. What is the three-letter acronym of the DNS protocol that uses TLS?
        ---> DOT
        
        
        ♦️SECURE SHELL(SSH) :
        	SSH is used to securly provide remote system administartion in other words you securly connect to another system and execute command on remote system.
        	To use ssh,you need ssh server and ssh client.ssh client need a username and password and private and public key.
        	To access another target terminal you need to follow this command : ssh username@target-ip . In that if ssh server is open on default port then you need to
        	authenticate with password for remote login. Once you authenticate you get a target terminal like mark@ip-<target-ip>:~$
        	
        	SSH is very reliable for remote administration because our username and password were sent encrypted; moreover, all commands we execute on the remote system
        	will be sent over an encrypted channel.We can use SSH to transfer files using SCP (Secure Copy Protocol) based on the SSH protocol.
        	
        	command :                      scp ssh username@target-ip:/home/username/file_name . This command copy file from /home/username to (~) home directory .
        	                                                   OR
                                               scp file_name ssh username@target-ip:/home/username . This command copy file from (~) to /home/mark.
                                               
 		
 	Questions : 1)Use SSH to connect to 10.201.67.130 as mark with the password XBtc49AB. Using uname -r, find the Kernel release?
 	---> use command : ssh mark@10.201.67.130 and type password XBtc49AB and use command to see kernel uname -r
 	Answer  : 5.15.0-119-generic
	2)Use SSH to download the file book.txt from the remote system. How many KBs did scp display as download size?
	---> use command : scp book.txt mark@10.201.67.130:/home/mark
	Answer : 415 kb
	
	
	♦️PASSWORD ATTACKS :
		This task will focus on attacks against passwords, i.e. something the target knows. If you revisit the communication with several previous servers using
		protocols such as Telnet, SSH, POP3, and IMAP, we always need a password to gain access.Attacks against passwords are usually carried out by:
		
		1)Password Guessing: Guessing a password requires some knowledge of the target, such as their pet’s name and birth year.
                2)Dictionary Attack: This approach expands on password guessing and attempts to include all valid words in a dictionary or a wordlist.
                3)Brute Force Attack: This attack is the most exhaustive and time-consuming where an attacker can go as far as trying all possible character combinations, 
                which grows fast (exponential growth with the number of characters).
                
                We want an automated way to try the common passwords or the entries from a word list; here comes THC Hydra. Hydra supports many protocols, including FTP, POP3,
                IMAP, SMTP, SSH, and all methods related to HTTP. The general command-line syntax is: hydra -l username -P wordlist.txt server service where we specify the
                following options:
                
                -l username: -l should precede the username, i.e. the login name of the target.
                -P wordlist.txt: -P precedes the wordlist.txt file, which is a text file containing the list of passwords you want to try with the provided username.
                server is the hostname or IP address of the target server.
                service indicates the service which you are trying to launch the dictionary attack.
                
                
                Consider following comman examples :
                
                1)hydra -l mark -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 10.201.67.130 ftp will use mark as the username as it iterates over the provided passwords against the FTP server.
                2)hydra -l mark -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt ftp://10.201.67.130 is identical to the previous example. 10.201.67.130 ftp is the same as ftp://10.201.67.130.
                3)hydra -l frank -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 10.201.67.130 ssh will use frank as the user name as it tries to login via SSH using the different passwords.

		In summary, attacks against login systems can be carried out efficiently using a tool, such as THC Hydra combined with a suitable word list. Mitigation against
		such attacks can be sophisticated and depends on the target system. A few of the approaches include:

    		1)Password Policy: Enforces minimum complexity constraints on the passwords set by the user.
    		2)Account Lockout: Locks the account after a certain number of failed attempts.
    		3)Throttling Authentication Attempts: Delays the response to a login attempt. A couple of seconds of delay is tolerable for someone who knows the password, but they
    		can severely hinder automated tools.
   		    4)Using CAPTCHA: Requires solving a question difficult for machines. It works well if the login page is via a graphical user interface (GUI). (Note that CAPTCHA
   		    stands for Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart.)
    		5)Requiring the use of a public certificate for authentication. This approach works well with SSH, for instance.
    		6)Two-Factor Authentication: Ask the user to provide a code available via other means, such as email, smartphone app or SMS.
    		7)There are many other approaches that are more sophisticated or might require some established knowledge about the user, such as IP-based geolocation
    		
    	Question : 1)We learned that one of the email accounts is lazie. What is the password used to access the IMAP service on 10.201.67.130?
    	---> use command : hydra -l lazie -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt imap://10.201.67.130
    	Answer : butterfly
    	
    	
    	♦️SUMMARY :
    		
    		It is good to remember the default port number for common protocols. For convenience, the services we covered are listed in the following table sorted by 
    		alphabetical order.

	
		Protocol 		TCP Port 		Application(s) 		Data Security
		FTP 			21 			      File 			    Cleartext
		
		FTPS 			990 			File Transfer 		Encrypted

		HTTP 			80 			    Worldwide Web 		Cleartext

		HTTPS 			443 			Worldwide Web 		Encrypted

		IMAP 			143 			Email (MDA) 		Cleartext
		
		IMAPS 			993 			Email (MDA) 		Encrypted

		POP3 			110 			Email (MDA) 		Cleartext

		POP3S 			995 			Email (MDA) 		Encrypted

		SFTP 			22 			   File Transfer 		Encrypted

		SSH 			22 			  Remote Access and	   Encrypted
                                      file transfer
											
		SMTP 			25 			  Email (MTA) 		    Cleartext

		SMTPS 			465 		  Email (MTA) 		    Encrypted

		Telnet 			23 			Remote Access 		    Cleartext
		
		
		Hydra remains a very efficient tool that you can launch from the terminal to try the different passwords. We summarize its main options in the following table.
		
		Option 								Explanation
		-l username 						Provide the login name
		-P WordList.txt 					Specify the password list to use
		server service 						Set the server address and service to attack
		-s PORT 						Use in case of non-default service port number
		-V or -vV 						Show the username and password combinations being tried
		-d 							Display debugging output if the verbose output is not helping
